Well, the truth is over.
The fighting between Israel
and Hamas is back,
and so is the nightmare
for innocent civilians.
Israel says that it's using.
Q R codes now
and interactive maps
to tell Gazans where to go.
Remember, self-service
and electricity are sparse there.
National Security Council spokesperson
John Kirby was asked on Friday
about the number of civilians
who have already died
since bombing resumed in Gaza,
and he would not say
if the Biden administration
has seen more deliberately
targeting from Israel.
Secretary of State
Antony Blinken had said that
he wanted to see Israeli plans
to protect civilians
before fighting resumed.
This is his latest comment.
I have seen that information
start to get out.
I saw the plans that Israel has in
a multiplicity of ways
to do everything possible
to protect civilians, including
making sure
that they have the information they need
and that there are ways
to accommodate them.
And this is going to be very important
going forward.
And it's something
we're going to be
looking at very closely.
All right.
Now the US is watching,
but is there anything more
that the US could be doing?
One option is adding conditions
to any aid in that
the US provides to Israel.
Some Democratic senators support it.
House Republicans do not.
Now plenty of House Democrats
oppose it, too,
including Congresswoman Debbie
Wasserman Schultz of Florida.
She is on the House
Appropriations Committee
and she joins me now.
It's been a while since we have talked,
so it's good to have you on
the show, Congresswoman.
Thank you very.
Much. Want to join you.
Thank you.
So let's start with why you oppose
putting some conditions
on the multi-billion dollar package
that Israel will most certainly get.
Well,
I think it's important
that we understand here that we are
this is
this is not a situation
where we don't have the ability
to communicate with Israel.
They are a close ally among our closest.
Our intelligence and military
leadership are sitting together
with Israel side by side every day.
That communication
is ongoing at the highest levels,
all the way up to President Biden.
And we are working with them
to make sure,
as they are already
prioritizing, minimizing
civilian casualties.
It's Hamas
that is putting civilians in harm's way,
embedding themselves
and their headquarters underneath
hospitals and U.N.
facilities.
And I mean, that's
where the accountability should lie
and making sure that Israel
can bring their hostages home.
And Hamas released them
and make sure that they can eradicate
the terrorists.
That is what the priority is.
Conditioning aid is not something you do
in an emergency situation with an ally.
So you are right that the
the civilians in Gaza
would not be in this position.
The estimated more than 14,000
who have been killed since October 7th
would not be dead
if not for the October 7th attack.
But if the point that you're making
is that the U.S.
has been sitting side by side with Israel
since the start of this
well, since October 7th,
I understand that.
But since the start of this,
there have been those 14,000 plus killed.
There have been,
according to UNICEF,
5300 children killed.
So if it did not inflow,
which their decision of targeting
before the truce.
Why are you confident
that there will be
anything different now
as they move into the south.
That there is real?
First of all, Israel
is held to a much, much higher standard
when when at war
than any other country on earth.
And they have specifically,
nearly exclusively in a war time,
made sure to notify and communicate
in advance with civilians,
particularly in this
very urbanized environment
that they should get out of harm's way.
Hamas, the terrorist organization
that puts them in harm's way,
prevents them from getting to safety.
And this is a very dense, urbanized area
in which Hamas is not actually
spent the funds that they have
to protect their civilians.
They have said publicly in interviews
that they spend their money
on their tunnel systems
so they can protect themselves.
So Hamas is to blame
for the harm
that is coming to their civilians.
But go where
when you say that the IDF is warning
the civilians to get out of the way.
And I should say that
the leaflets have been dropped
over the cities in southern Gaza
that they are focusing on now,
but they're using QR codes.
We have reported that
how unreliable cell phone
services, the electricity,
the Internet as well.
So I don't know what a QR code does.
Anybody who doesn't have
cell phone service
and doesn't have access to the Internet.
But if the IDF has
told them to move south,
where are they supposed to go now?
What should happen here
is that Hamas should release
the hostages.
They should cease their attacks.
A cease fire that they yet again broke
just yesterday, even before
it was determined
that the truce was not going to continue.
This is on Hamas.
That's where this conflict was started.
They have killed 1400
civilians in
an unprecedented attack in Israel.
It took 248
women, children
and elderly people hostage,
most of whom
they are still holding on to.
Where are the.
Victor,
I wish you were asking me questions
about how Hamas is being held to account.
That is,
Gaza needs to be freed from Hamas
and we already have the ability,
thanks to President Biden.
We are already communicating.
We've gotten dozens and dozens,
actually hundreds
of aid trucks into Israel, into Gaza.
And Hamas
skims off the top
to make sure that they
can reach, fortify,
be struck.
Those trucks are getting in.
Those trucks are getting in
after a nearly month
long blockade on food and fuel and water
and the fuel
obviously
challenging the desalination plant.
But let me ask you about
you say that this is on Hamas.
Yes.
Humanitarian aid for themselves.
I understand.
That. And again.
But here's the question.
You say this is Hamas.
I understand that the
the Israeli government has said
that ending Hamas is the goal.
I think most states across the world,
most countries, can understand that
after what happened on October 7th,
that is is the goal.
But if the goal is to go after Hamas
and there are innocent
civilians between them,
what pressure do you think,
if at all, is required
or is appropriate on on Israel
to prevent the numbers
that we saw in the first
45 days of this war?
We are
with with Israel
effectively communicating that
it is essential that they minimize
civilian casualties,
the Palestinian civilians
that have been killed
as a result of Hamas's brutality
it has is devastating
and it shouldn't be done.
If they don't, then
if there's no consequence
and Congress
is not going to put
any conditions on the aid.
And this is not advocacy,
I'm just saying.
What then is the consequence for Israel?
What do you mean by if they don't?
I mean, we're already in a situation
where worldwide, including the U.N.,
U.N.
women and others,
have not even condemned Hamas
for their attacks,
and they haven't condemned them
for the brutal sexual violence.
I mean,
Israel is under a situation
where it's me, too, unless you're a Jew.
And the higher standard
that Israel is held to in wartime
when they have suffered
a incredibly brutal attack, is
why are they inappropriate
in an emergency
And this disproportionate accountability
that is that Israel is being held
to when Hamas completely controls
the ability to cease
to cease the war
and releasing the hostages
and ending their commitment
to eradicating Israel and killing Jews.
All right, Congresswoman Debbie, what.
In their report?
Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman-Schultz,
thank you so much for being with me.
Good to see you again. Thanks.